### Flow Coverage Report (May 1st)

We're currently using Flow 0.47 and have 60% coverage. Here's a quick run down of how we're doing.


#### Components

* **54%** coverage
* 44 components are typed (almost all)
* `yarn flow-react` - creates a flow report for components

Typing our components helps us with rendering logic, which can take advantage
of our domain objects such as `Frame`.

```js
function renderFrameTitle(frame: Frame) {
  const displayName = formatDisplayName(frame);
  return dom.div({ className: "title" }, displayName);
}
```

We are not yet typing our props and state, which would be a helpful way
to get additional coverage. We currently use `PropTypes`, which do not include
flow types. We will hopefully switch to [props] soon to take advantage of static typing.

```js
shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps, nextState) {
  const { frames, selectedFrame } = this.props;
  const { showAllFrames } = this.state;
  return (
    frames !== nextProps.frames ||
    selectedFrame !== nextProps.selectedFrame ||
    showAllFrames !== nextState.showAllFrames
  );
}
```

There have been a couple places where flow types have been difficult to get right.

1. **covariants** `this.toggleFramesDisplay = this.toggleFramesDisplay.bind(this)`. We have an [issue](https://github.com/firefox-devtools/debugger/issues/3172) to improve this.
2. **defaultProps** and other class properties have been awkward to add types for.

Overall, typing our components has been a nice win though as it gives us additional confidence our UI will behave appropriately and catches several lifecycle edge-cases
where properties could be null or racey.

#### Utilities

* **59%** coverage
* **60** files
* `yarn flow-utils` - creates a flow report for utils

We started typing our utility functions. Starting with utilities helped us
document our primary business logic and made them easier to refactor.

In this example, we added types to a parser utility that checks to see if an
expression is in a particular scope.

```js
export function isExpressionInScope(expression: string, scope?: Scope) {
  if (!scope) {
    return false;
  }

  const variables = getVariablesInScope(scope);
  const firstPart = expression.split(/\./)[0];
  return variables.includes(firstPart);
}
```

We are not currently typing our test files, but I think it would be helpful if
we did. In this example, we are searching for all of the functions in a given
source, but because we did not provide a type for `getSourceText`, flow can
not use `getSymbols`'s types to tell us if we're writing a reasonable test.

```js
it("finds functions", () => {
  const fncs = getSymbols(getSourceText("func")).functions;
  const names = fncs.map(f => f.value);
  expect(names).to.eql(["square", "child", "anonymous"]);
});
```

Overall, typing our utilities was a great first step. And the more that we type
the components, actions, and reducers that call the utilities, the more value
we will get out of them. Already, the types are forcing an internal consistency
that helps us achieve a better API for our utils.

#### Actions / Reducers

Our Actions and Reducers are generally very well covered.

* **78%** coverage
* **19** files
* `yarn flow-redux` - creates a flow report for actions and reducers

Actions like breakpoints and pause have a coverage score of over 80%.
We initially, typed our action dispatcher params. We've recently added
types for `ThunkArgs` and `State`. Typing `State`, allows flow to type check
our selectors and utils.


```js
export function newSource(source: Source) {
  return ({ dispatch, getState }: ThunkArgs) => {
    if (prefs.clientSourceMapsEnabled) {
      dispatch(loadSourceMap(source));
    }

    dispatch({ type: constants.ADD_SOURCE, source });

    checkSelectedSource(getState(), dispatch, source);
    checkPendingBreakpoints(getState(), dispatch, source);
  };
}
```

Our reducers are 80% covered and some reducers like breakpoints and pause are 80+
percent covered. Breakpoints is actually 97% covered. Most of the coverage comes
from our State type and Action union types.

The `State` type describes the state of the reducer store. Typing the State
and action types lets us fully describe our reducers and get a high flow coverage
score.

```js
export type BreakpointsState = {
  breakpoints: I.Map<string, Breakpoint>,
  pendingBreakpoints: any[],
  breakpointsDisabled: false
};
```

Typing our actions gives us confidence that the action dispatched will be
what our reducers expect to handle.

```js
type BreakpointAction =
  | { type: "ADD_BREAKPOINT",
      breakpoint: Breakpoint,
      condition: string,
      value: BreakpointResult
    }
  | {
      type: "REMOVE_BREAKPOINT",
      breakpoint: Breakpoint,
      disabled: boolean
    }
...
export type Action = SourceAction | BreakpointAction | PauseAction | UIAction;
```


[props]: https://flow.org/en/docs/frameworks/react/#toc-adding-types-for-react-component-props
